NVDXJIRA(1)		NetBSD General Commands Manual		   NVDXJIRA(1)

NAME
     nvdXjira -- cross-reference CVEs from the NVD with Jira

SYNOPSIS
     nvdXjira [-Dhv] [-c file] [-j url] [-l file] [-p project] [-r file]
	      [-s file] [-t tag] [-u [tickets]]

DESCRIPTION
     The nvdXjira utility cross-references CVEs read from stdin in NIST's
     National Vulerability Database XML format with a Jira instance.  That is,
     for every CVE found, it will look for tickets containing the CVE identi-
     fier anywhere in the text.	 For any CVEs not found in Jira, nvdXjira can
     create a new ticket.

OPTIONS
     nvdXjira supports the following options:

     -D		 Run in debug mode.  No tickets will be created.

     -c file	 Read configuration from this file.

     -h		 Print a short usage statement and exit.

     -j url	 Specify the base URL for Jira.

     -l file	 Read actions and patterns to apply to tickets with matching
		 labels from this file.

     -p project	 Create new tickets in this project.

     -r file	 Read regular expressions from this file and immediately close
		 any tickets where the body matches.

     -s file	 Read actions and patterns to apply to tickets with matching
		 vulnerable software list from this file.

     -t tag	 Tag new tickets with this tag/label.

     -u		 Update existing tickets only.	If this flag is given,
		 nvdXjira will not read any input data and only act on exist-
		 ing tickets in Jira.  It may apply software actions, assign
		 the ticket for triaging or nag the current owner.

		 If any ticket names are given as arguments, nvdXjira will
		 only update those tickets.

     -v		 Be verbose.  Can be specified multiple times.

DETAILS
     nvdXjira operates on XML data describing CVEs in NIST's National Vulnera-
     bility Database.  The data is read from stdin.  nvdXjira will loop over
     all entries in the input and query Jira for any tickets containing the
     CVE identifier in its text and, if no tickets are found, create a new
     ticket for the CVE.

     New tickets are, by default, created under the 'VULN' project, and tagged
     with the 'cve' label.

     If the -u option is provided, nvdXjira will query Jira for all unas-
     signed, open tickets and update them according to the given software
     actions.

     Any tickets mentioning a CVE will be linked to the respective ticket as
     "related", unless another link already exists.

AUTOMATIC ACTIONS
     nvdXjira can read a list of actions and patterns from the file specified
     via the -s flag.  That file should contain lines with two whitespace sep-
     arated fields containing as the first field an 'action' to perform
     against tickets with a 'vulnerable software list' field matching the reg-
     ular expression in the second field.  An optional third field can be pro-
     vided to add as a comment when the given action is applied.

     'actions' may be:

     assign:user	Assign the given ticket to the specified user.

     blocker:project	Create a blocker ticket in the given project.

     cancel		Close the given ticket.	 This is commonly used if the
			given software is known not to be in use.

     mail:user1,user2	Send an email to user1 and user2 with information
			about this ticket.

     watch:user1,user2	Add user1 and user2 to the list of watchers.

     Similarly, actions may be defined for matching jira labels found in the
     file specified via the -l flag.  The syntax for the file is the same as
     above (ie two whitespace separated fields, defining actions and regular
     expressions matched against each label).  The supported actions for this
     file are:

     mail:user1,user2	Send an email to user1 and user2 with information
			about this ticket.

CONFIGURATION
     By default, nvdXjira reads its configuration from the file /etc/nvdXjira
     (if it exists).  In this file, you can specify the following key-
     word=value pairs:

     assign-threshold	The number of seconds after which a ticket is assigned
			to a member of the 'triage-group'.  Defaults to 86400
			(24h).

     cve-threshold	The number of seconds after which a CVE is consider
			too old to bother.  Defaults to 4838400 (8w).

     nag-threshold	The number of seconds after which a ticket is updated
			with a comment, suggesting further attention.
			Defaults to 1209600 (2w).

     password		The password with which to authenticate against the
			Jira API.  Overwrite using the NVDXJIRA_PASSWORD envi-
			ronment variable.  No default value.

     project		The Jira project under which to create new tickets.
			Overwrite using the -p flag.  Defaults to 'VULN'.

     reject		The pathname of a file containing regular expressions
			based on which to immediately close any tickets with a
			matching description.  Defaults to
			'/etc/nvdXjira/reject-patterns'.

     swactions		The pathname of a file containing regular expressions
			based on which to assign or cancel tickets.  Defaults
			to '/etc/nvdXjira/software-actions'.

     triage-group	The name of the Unix group containing users to whom
			tickets should be assigned.  Defaults to 'cve-ticket-
			handlers'.

     url		The base URL for Jira API access.  Overwrite using the
			-u flag.  No default value.

     username		The username to authenticate as against the Jira API.
			Overwrite using the NVDXJIRA_USER environment vari-
			able.  Defaults to USER.

     tag		The tag with which to label newly created tickets.
			Overwrite using the -t flag.  Defaults to 'cve'.

EXAMPLES
     To create new tickets for any CVEs found in the most recent data from
     NIST using the 'security' project and tagging each ticket using the 'nvd'
     label:

	   curl https://nvd.nist.gov/static/feeds/xml/cve/nvdcve-2.0-recent.xml |  \
		   nvdXjira -p security -t nvd

     To very verbosely update existing tickets without consuming CVE data:

	   nvdXjira -u -v -v -v -v

     To only update the existing tickets FOO-123 and BAR-99:

	   nvdXjira -u FOO-123 BAR-99

EXIT STATUS
     The nvdXjira utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     yvc(1)

HISTORY
     nvdXjira was originally written by Jan Schaumann <jschauma@twitter.com>
     in April 2013.

NetBSD 5.0			March 14, 2014			    NetBSD 5.0
